this lecture is about the Sintang
medical relation discovery and mutual
information in this lecture we are going
to continue discussing see mathematical
relation discovery in particular we're
going to talk about another concept the
information theory called mutual
information and how it can be used to
discover select medical relations before
we talked about a problem of conditional
entropy and that is the conditional
entropy computed on different pairs of
words is not really comparable so that
makes it hard to discover strong C
magmatic relations global it from
copper's so now we are going to
introduce mutual information which is
another concept in information theory
that allows us to in sometimes normalize
the conditional entropy to make it more
comparable across different affairs in
particular mutual information in order
by I of x and y matches the entropy
reduction of X obtained from knowing why
more specifically the question we are
interested in here is how much of a duck
in the end day of X can we obtain by
knowing why so mathematically it can be
defined as the difference between the
original entropy of X and the
conditional entropy of x given Y and you
might see here you can see here it can
also be defined as the reduction of
entropy of Y because of knowing X now
normally the two conditional entropies H
of x given Y and H of Y given X are not
equal but interestingly the reduction of
entropy by knowing one of them is
actually equal so this quantity is
called a mutual information in ordered
by I here and this function has some
interesting properties first it's also
non-negative and this
is easy to understand because the
original entropy is always not going to
be lower than the we possibly reduced
the conditional entropy in other words
the conditional entropy would never
exceed original entropy knowing some
information can always help us
potentially but won't hurt us in
predicting X the signal property is that
it's symmetric Y conditional entropy is
not symmetrical mutual information is at
the third property is that it reaches
its minimum zero if and only if the two
random variables are completely
independent that means knowing one of
them doesn't tell us anything about the
other and this last property can be
verified by simply looking at the
equation above and it reaches zero if
and only if the conditional entropy of X
comma Y is exactly the same as the
original in Japan of X so that means
knowing why did not help at all and
that's when x and y are completely
independent now when we fix X to rank
different wives using conditional
entropy would would give the same order
as ranking based on mutual information
because in the function here H of X is
fixed because X is fixed so ranking
based on which information is exactly
the same as ranking based on the
conditional entropy of X given Y but the
mutual information allows us to compare
different pairs of x and y so that's why
mutual information is more general and
in general more useful so let's examine
some intuition of using which
information for syntagmatic
relation mining now the question we ask
of our syntactical relation mining is
whenever eats occurs what other words
also tend to occur so this question can
be framed
as a future information question that is
which was they have a high visual
information with each so we're going to
computer the mutual information between
needs and other words and if we do that
and it's basically a based on the same
intuition as in conditional entropy we
will see that words that are strongly
associated with each will tend to have
high bitch information whereas words
that are not related we have lower bitch
information so this I give some example
here the mooching formation between eats
and a meet and which is the same as
between meets and eat because
misinformation is symmetric it is
expected to be higher than the bitching
from the in between eats and the because
knowing that doesn't really help us
predictor eats similarly knowing eats
doesn't help us predicting the as well
and you also can easily see that the
mutual information between a word and
itself is the largest which is equal to
the reaching for the entropy of this
world right so because in this case the
reduction is maximum because knowing Wow
would allow the predictor the other
completely so the conditional entropy is
0 therefore the mutual information
reaches its maximum it's going to be
larger than or equal to the Machine
phone in between eats and another world
in other words picking any other word
and computer vision information between
each and that word you want to get any
visual information larger than the
mutual information between eats and
itself so now let's think about how to
compute the mutual information now in
order to do that we often use a
different form of mutual information and
we can mathematically rewrite the mutual
information into the form shown on this
slide where we essentially see a formula
that computes what's called a KL
divergence or Kobach laid
by virgins this is another term in
information theory it measures the
divergence between two distributions now
if you look at the formula it's also sum
over many combinations of different
values of the two random variables but
inside the sum many we are doing a
comparison between to join the
distributions the numerator has the
joint actual observed join the
distribution of the two random variables
the bottom part the denominator can be
interpreted as the expected joined the
distribution of the two random variables
if there were independent because when
two random variables are independent
they are joined at this version is equal
to the product of the two probabilities
so this comparison would tell us whether
the two variables are indeed independent
if they are indeed independent then we
would expect that the two are the same
but if the numerator is different from
the denominator that would mean the two
variables are not independent and that
helps measure the Association the sum is
simply to take into consideration of all
the combinations of the values of these
two random variables in our case each
random variable can choose one of the
two values 0 or 1 so we have four
combinations here right so if we look at
this form of each information issues
that the mutual information matches the
divergence of the actual join the
distribution from the expected
distribution under the independence
assumption the larger this divergence is
the higher the mutual main information
would be so now let's further look at
the what are exactly the probabilities
involved in this formula of mutual
information and here I listed all the
probabilities involved and it's easy for
you to verify that basically we have
first two probabilities corresponding to
the presence or absence of each award
so for w1 we have two probabilities
shown here they should sum to one
because a word can either be present or
absent in the segment and similarly for
the second word we also have two
probabilities representing presence or
absence of this world and this sometime
I as well and then finally we have a lot
of join the probabilities that
represented the scenarios of Co
occurrences of the two words and they
are shown here right so and there's
something wrong because the two words
can only have these four possible
scenarios either they both occur so in
that case both variables we have a value
of one or one of them occurs there are
two scenarios in these two cases one of
the random variables will be equal to
one and the other it will be zero and
finally we have the scenario where when
none of them occurs so this is when the
two variables taking a value of zero and
there's something 1 so these are the
probabilities involved in the
calculation of mutual information
right once we know how to calculate
these probabilities we can easily
calculate the new information it's also
interesting note that there are after
some relations or constraints among
these probabilities and we already saw
two of them right so the in the previous
site that you have seen that the
marginal probabilities of these words
sum to one and we also have seen this
constraint that says the two words can
only have these four different scenarios
of co-occurrences but we also have some
additional constraints listed in the
bottom and so for example this one means
if we add up the probabilities that we
observe the two words occur together and
the probabilities
the word the first word occurs and the
signal word doesn't occur we get exactly
the probability that the first word is
observed in other words and when the
word is observed when the first word is
observed and there are only two
scenarios and depending on whether
signal word is also observed so this
probability captures the first scenario
when the second award actually is also
observed and this captures the sickness
in area when the second award is not
observed so we only see the first word
and it's easy to see the other equations
also follow the same reasoning now these
equations allow us to compute some
probabilities based on other problem in
today's and this can simplify the
computation so more specifically and if
we know the probability that a word is
present and in this case right so if we
know this and if we know the presence of
the probability of presence of the
second word then we can easily compute
their absence probability right the it's
very easy to use this equation and so we
this will take care of the computation
of these probabilities of presence or
absence of each word now let's look at
the there join the distribution right
let's assume that we also have available
the probability that they occur together
now it's it's easy to see that we can
actually computer all the rest of these
probabilities based on these
specifically for example using this
equation we can compute the probability
that the first word occurred and the
second word did not right because we
know these probabilities in the boxes
and similarly using this equation we can
compute the probability that we observe
only the second word and then finally we
this probability can be calculated by
using this equation because now this is
known and this is also known and this is
already know right so this can be easily
calculated right so now this can be
calculated so this slide shows that we
only need to know how to computer these
three probabilities that are shown in
the boxes namely the presence of each
word and the co-occurrence of both words
in a segment